# Rubix-Cube-Solver-Using-Parallel-Computing

This program gives the “optimal” solution to a scrambled Rubik’s cube, meaning that it gives the solutions to the cube that involves the least amount of moves possible.  Upon startup, the program initializes a pattern database, referred to as a distance table in the code utilized. 
When run on the  computers of the time the code was originally written, this initialization period took around 11 minutes.  However, when i ran the program on the ECS cluster, it took about 13 seconds due to dramatic increases in processor speeds over the last two decades.  Once the pattern database is initialized, the user can input a scrambled cube for the program to solve.  In this implementation, a solved cube is represented as a sequence of “cubies,” which are the small cubes that make up the Rubik’s cube.  There are 26 cubies, with nine on each of the three layers minus the middle layer, which does not have a center cubie.  The solved cube is represented as follows: UF UR UB UL DF DR DB DL FR FL BR BL UFR URB UBL ULF DRF DFL DLB DBR.
The letters in each cubie represent the faces that it is on - U is Up, D is Down, F is Front, B is Back, R is Right, L is Left.  Edge cubies are represented by the two faces they span, while corner cubies are represented by the three faces they span.  Center cubies are not included because they are only on one face, so it would be redundant to include them in this notation.  A scrambled cube is given by enumerating each cubie on the scrambled cube that corresponds to each cubie in the solved representation.  An example of a scrambled cube is: UF UR RD RB LU LF DB DL FR UB DF BL UFR RFD RDB RBU LFU LUB DLB LDF.
To find the solution, the program performs a specialized depth-first called iterative-deepening-A* or IDA*, which “looks for increasingly longer solutions in a series of iterations” (Korf). Using a depth-first algorithm allows for finding the shortest possible sequence of moves to solve the cube.  The median number of moves for optimal solutions of scrambled cubes is 18, with a proposed theoretical limit of 26 moves.  I found the majority of solutions to be between 16 and 19 moves. 
